From: Henrik Frisk <henrik.frisk@ki.se>
Date: October 12, 2023 at 14:22:02 GMT+2
To: "adrian.elmi.terander" <adrian.elmi.terander@gmail.com>, Gayane Margaryan <gayane.margaryan@stud.ki.se>, Erik Edstrom <cegedstrom@gmail.com>
Subject: Sv: Data update

﻿
Hi Gayane,

 

From what I can see in one of the files, two R-tables have been created from the exel file. One categorized from Baseline D-wave and the other from Intraop D-wave changes. The last part of the file with the motor change tables I don´t understand.

 

I agree with Adrian, we are interested in the possible correlations between the intraoperative changes in SEP, MEP and D-wave and the changes in the clinical variables, both 3 month and long term.

 

Do I understand the data correctly that we have detailed neurophysiological data with actual numbers in 7 cases?  In the rest we have these categories of change (unchanged, amplitude decrease etc.)?

 

Best regards

Henrik

Från: Adrian Elmi Terander <adrian.elmi.terander@gmail.com>
Skickat: den 12 oktober 2023 12:20
Till: Gayane Margaryan <gayane.margaryan@stud.ki.se>; Henrik Frisk <henrik.frisk@ki.se>; Erik Edstrom <cegedstrom@gmail.com>
Ämne: Re: Data update

 

Dear Gayane,

 

I have difficulties reading these files, One is at least readable, the other is only code!

 

What we are looking for is correlations between intra operative changes and clinical status at follow-up.

In few cases where we have preoperative neurophysiology and postoperative dito, it would be nice to illustrate if the changes in neurophysiology correspond to clinical findings.

 

We also had 6 cases with detailed neurophysiological data. I don't know what we can do with those.

 

Since we have SEP, MEP and D-vawe, we look at each one separately.

 

It would have been interesting to detect thresholds for how much the signal must decrease to result in clinical deficits. For instance if the SEP decreases by 30% vs 70% and if the latter results in deficit and we could calculate a threshold of 66% as predictive. Samr for MEP and D-vawe. However, I think our sample size is too small for this.

 

Basically, I suggest that you extract everything possible from the data and present it in a table. We can then decide which findings are interesting and should be included in the manuscript.

 

Best regards

Adrian

 

 

 

On Tue, Oct 10, 2023 at 9:18 AM Gayane Margaryan <gayane.margaryan@stud.ki.se> wrote:

Dear Adrian,

 

I hope you are doing well.

 

I had a session with David yesterday and he is done with the most time consuming part. Please find below the two files in a format that we can look at and think what exactly we want to be analyzed.

 

I have a session with him this weekend and he needs only about 2 hours to get the analysis we need. He can run any analysis we propose out of the summary two files attached. We will sit together with that.

 

Please let me know if you have any suggestions and I will try to meet Jonas this week before David starts the analysis.

 

From neurophysiology point of view, I think distal D wave, intraop. MEPs and lastly SEPs should be correlated with postop. clinical results. 

 

 

Thank you.

 

Kind regards,

Gayane 